---
inFeed: true
description: >-
  Many years ago a group of characters, in the County of Simcoe Ontario, formed
  a club called the Simcoe County old bastards association, using the acronym
  SCOBA. The name was contrived as a tongue-in-cheek gybe aimed at the great
  number of social clubs who thrived on rituals, exclusivity, and pretentious
  activities.
dateModified: '2017-01-14T19:08:12.937Z'
datePublished: '2017-01-14T19:08:13.511Z'
title: TOBA
author: []
publisher: {}
via: {}
starred: false
datePublishedOriginal: '2017-01-14T19:08:12.359Z'
sourcePath: _posts/2017-01-14-toba.md
_type: Blurb

---
# **TOBA**

Many years ago a group of characters, in the County of Simcoe Ontario, formed a club called the Simcoe County old bastards association, using the acronym SCOBA. The name was contrived as a tongue-in-cheek gybe aimed at the great number of social clubs who thrived on rituals, exclusivity, and pretentious activities.

They had meetings, they had fun, and in the end they died out. There are a few of them left, I suppose, but I have lost contact with them. It seems a shame that they did not expand their activities, for in a world that is sadly lacking in humour and basic values, they would fill a need in a social pattern that cannot laugh at itself.

Moved by curiosity I looked into the word bastard. The word stems from the old Frankish term "basstaror" which means conceived on the saddle (when used as a pillow whilst travelling) and basing means born or conceived in the barn. These are also related to proto-Germanic bass, (which reminds one of Shakespeare's why brand they us with base? With baseness? Bastardy? Base, base ?)there's also Gothic Bants, modern boose, ( cattle crib).

Depending upon the case, the word bastard has fallen into use as an epithet rather than a simple descriptive term. Historically it is a word used to describe children born out of wedlock. During the Middle Ages and the age of chivalry, men (Nobles)went about the country fighting, robbing, collecting taxes and generally causing mayhem, a form of estate management common to the time. At day's end they were exhausted from their endeavours and so they would call a truce with the local peasant and arrange to sleep in his barn. The peasant girls, curious as to the noble physique, would happily join the traveller on his saddle/pillow.

Shunned by the noble fathers and held in awe by the peasant mothers, the issue of these social experiments spent their lives fighting for their birth rites. Some fought their way to recognition by their father and thereby claimed their rightful inheritance, or at least a position of merit in their father's household.

In general they earned a reputation as a force to be reckoned with. This aggressive attitude was highly esteemed by the military and many became mercenaries. When the middle-age armourers designed a superior sword as the main side arm of troops, they named it the bastard sword. The substance of the attitude was that a child fathered on the saddle or in the barn, would be in for a very tough life and thus grow up to be hardy, a bastard sword was known as a tough hardy sword, hence it's adopted name.

It was pretty clear to the bastards of old that if they wanted to live with their full birthrights, they had to demand them, fight for them, and protect them with great care. They took up their own cause and for the most part they won. It is a lesson that we would be well advised to follow.

The vaunted 21st-century has brought us a degree of mendacity in public life that was never envisioned by the founding fathers of our democratic systems. Democratic principles have long since left our courts of law. Beginning with the second half of the 20th century, there has been an erosion of values on the part of the judiciary. The breach of fiduciary duty threatens the courts, that they represent, with total systemic failure.

Horizontal marketing has been replaced by vertical marketing in our electoral system. That has resulted in a severance of the umbilical cord that connected the voter to the MP. Because of this, the term "will of the people" takes on a hollow sound. Voter apathy in Canada has brought us to the point where something less than 15% of the total population elect the government of the day.

Special interest groups promote causes, using street demonstrations that tread dangerously close to civil disobedience, this, combined with strident lobbying in parliament, threatens our entire electoral system

The Bureaucratic Mandarins administer the affairs of the country with little or no reference to the government itself. Our way of life is dying on a daily basis and yet we stand by, saying nothing, doing nothing, and secretly hoping that it is all a bad dream.

The collective known as the Christian Churches was once the moral and ethical pillar of both our political and judicial systems. When decisions were contemplated, one of the critical questions was, "how will the church view this"? This factor of intimidation served to keep most of the politicians on the high road, most of the time. Today the church is dying. Its voice is no longer heard in the halls of power.

It is time that someone take up the cause and speak out on behalf of the principles and freedoms that made this such a great land. Perhaps it is time for "The Old Bastards Association", to let its voice be heard.

To that end we have devised Articles of Association that set out, in a broad sense, the guidelines for TOBA.